So I'm Jamie Finn, I'm the president and
co-founder of Securitize.
We are a startup that was founded in 2017,
and we were founded based on the premise
that there was a big gap in the technology
space around digital securities.
So as of today, almost every security in
the world is done based on a piece of
paper that somebody signs.
We think that that's a pretty
inefficient model, and so
what we've created is a digital version of
that leveraging blockchain technologies,
both public and private blockchains.
In order to create digital securities
that are more transparent,
easier to trade, easy to use,
and just fundamentally better.
I mean, at this point,
we're competing with paper, so
we should be able to
make a better product.
Blockchain technologies really enable
fundamentally new ways of interacting with
both private and public securities.
They enable all new ways of
understanding who owns these securities.
You can see trades happening
live on a blockchain.
You can see the whole transaction
happening end to end, and really,
they create this environment of
transparency that isn't available today,
particularly around private securities.
So that is kind of where we started,
and really,
one of the assets we started
with was venture funds.
Venture funds are a fundamentally
illiquid and very hard to access asset.
There's very little
information known about them,
they are notoriously secretive.
And so taking an asset like that and
making it available broadly to investors
all over the world was something that we
thought was a really powerful concept and
creates a really cool
new financial product.
So that's really where we started, and so
some of our customers are companies
like Blockchain Capital or SPiCE VC, and
a number of other kind of venture funds
that we've worked with around that.
And that's been kind of the point
of entry for our business.
From there, we really moved into what most
people feel is one of the largest asset
classes in the world that's almost totally
non-traded, although it is liquid, and
that is real estate.
So real estate's a new asset class,
it's also moving on to the blockchain.
And we think it's actually a fantastic use
case, because you're taking an asset that
has all sorts of different
components like debt, or equity, and
putting it into a token which
represents ownership of this asset.
This makes it so
that you can do something really unique,
where you can buy a piece of a property
without actually taking the title of that
property as part of the transaction.
This is also an interesting
problem on the tax side.
So one of our customers is the St.
Regis Hotel in Aspen, Colorado, and
Aspen coin was one of our
first real estate projects.
It's a single asset writ, and
it's the first time that someone's
tokenized a chunk of a hotel.
And now, every investor in that project
really has access to all the financial
information and
everything about that hotel through
this dashboard that we give them.
And not only that,
the asset's liquid and tradable.
So they can go on a secondary marketplace,
and
they could sell it to somebody else who
would like to be an owner of the St.
Regis, which is a fascinating
business opportunity.
So Securitize was founded on
the premise of having to create and
deliver something that worked
from the very first day.
If you look at the heritage of Securitize,
we were really born from a demand and
a need from a customer.
And so, from the very first day, we've
been totally focused on execution and
delivering.
We haven't really spent a lot of time
debating things like standards, and
technologies, and what's the best
way you could do something,
because we actually had to get it done.
And getting it done, we were able to kind
of create this track record of execution,
and that's what Securitize
is really best known for.
We deliver products.
We've really done the first
issuances of digital securities on
an ethereum blockchain.
There's a public blockchain.
We've enabled trading on
in secondary markets for
the first time ever of digital securities
with Ethereum, and we're the first company
ever to have the same security
trading on multiple exchanges.
This is a very big deal.
A lot of people are interested
in what's known as an ICO, and
you may have heard about
it from early in 2017.
These were really fantastic capital
formation events that had happened
on a global basis in a way that
nobody's ever seen before.
And it's really the fundamental
reason that STOs, or
security token offerings, were created.
When you could have an idea and
have somebody give you a $100 million for
that idea for
you to do whatever you wanted with it,
it's obviously going to
attract a lot of attention.
And so that attention is really
what brought digital securities to
the mainstream, and
it's now kind of where ICOs have now
moved into the digital security realm.
We have a whole bunch of new products that
are coming along, and for me personally,
as an investor, it never really
made sense in the old ICO days,
because it was simply you weren't
getting anything for your money.
Now, you're actually getting equity,
or revenue share, or
some sort of distribution
associated with your investment.
So at Securitize, we really believe
that all securities will eventually
become digital assets, and they'll
be available on public blockchains.
So that's the future that we see, and
we've seen that happen kind of
with every product over time.
Things that start as physical products,
B2CD, or even a record,
eventually ends up just being
a stream you get on Spotify.
Securities have been
the last thing to get there.
Right now, most of these transactions
are still done on paper.
So that has to go away, and we're
leading the charge to get rid of that.
So right now, there's a trend going on,
and we've seen this trend in the past, and
I'll liken it to that.
So today in the blockchain space, we have
public blockchain such as Ethereum or
Bitcoin, and then we have private
blockchains such as Hyperledger, or
any number of other kind of
protocols that are out there.
What's interesting about this space
is that we have a very similar
thing to compare this to.
So if you look back maybe 10,
20 years ago, everybody had a data center.
And that was what you ran in order
to run your Internet products,
you ran it into data center.
Then flash forward to today,
everybody runs on cloud.
If you're going to look at things
today in the blockchain world,
what's happened is that people have
started in banks, in particular.
Because I believe banks will end
up being the biggest users of
digital ledger technologies or
blockchain, and
they will eventually all end
up on a public blockchain.
To get there, they're going to
start on private blockchain.
Because just as in the past where
everybody was uncomfortable with a server
in the cloud, and today,
the CIA runs their servers on Amazon.
Eventually, even the financial
institutions will become comfortable with
these public blockchains.
Public blockchains are the right
long-term solution for
all financial, products because
they offer the transparency and
immutability that you're going to want,
and they have the controls that you need.
Today, the banks aren't
comfortable with it.
In the future, they definitely will be,
and that is the future of blockchain.
The regulatory environment around
blockchain is relatively murky.
Securitize has taken a position where
we feel that these are all securities.
They are not some sort
of random token format.
And we believe that as securities,
they have to be treated that way under
the securities laws which exist in the US.
In the US, our regulatory framework
is actually pretty clear and
pretty good when it comes
to these types of things.
Most people don't realize it, digital
securities were created and authorized
to exist when Hurricane Sandy wiped out
almost all the paper records in New York.
So after that,
you could actually just have a digital
entry without any paper to back it up.
That's a really big step, and
it's actually one of the only countries
in the world where you can do that.
So we think the US framework is
actually pretty good for issuing and
managing digital securities.
We're working across a number of other
countries with them on this topic.
But just emphasizing the fact
that you can do this
today on a blockchain in the US legally.
As long as you follow the rules
that have existed since 1933 and
then were updated in early 2000s,
you're in a really good place to be
able to operate this type of business.
At Securitize, we're looking always
to find people with true grit and
people who are unwilling to give up.
When you're doing a startup, the easiest
thing to do is to quit and to stop.
Because actually, what you're doing at a
startup is probably not going to succeed.
In fact, in 99.99% of the time,
it's just not going to work.
But the 1%, or the tenth of 1% it works
is it extremely massive opportunity.
So we really look for
people who have experience,
not only kind of creating their own
business probably when they were younger,
from a lemonade stand all the way
through to delivering papers.
But also, generally,
if you're interested in marketing,
be really great at marketing.
Marketing is badly needed in FinTech.
And all these different kind of components
are things you should really know about.
Obviously, understanding numbers,
understanding balance sheets,
understanding how cash flow is working,
all that's fundamental and really basic.
But at the end of the day,
what we really are looking for is somebody
who has the grit to not kind of give up
in the face of a pretty daunting task.
And that's something that you're
going to find really rarely, and
it takes a lot of effort and a lot of
interviews to go through with someone.
And many times, those really great
people are already at great companies.
So then, you have to try and
pull them out of there and
bring them into this highly risky
environment, which is a startup.
FinTech today is really controlled by
a few different very large entities.
And whether or not you know it,
almost all of your money one way or
another ends up in the hands of probably
eight or nine banks in the whole world.
This is not something
that will last forever.
It is changing, and it's changing because
people are becoming more empowered, and
more people need access.
If you look at millennials today,
which I'm barely missing out on,
one of the most interesting
things is how unbanked they are.
And then again, how comfortable
they are with digital assets and
digital currencies.
I really see things like Bitcoin and
other digital currencies becoming very
mainstream in the long-term,
particularly as a store of value.
And I think FinTech is going to have to
evolve to support this new generation of
wealth that's coming up.
All these folks who are coming
in this next generation
understand digital natively.
And if your FinTech products aren't
natively digital, and you have to
make a phone call to get something done,
they are not going to be your customer.